In this lesson, you will establish a bidirectional relationship between the course and the grade table.
Now one course can be associated with many grades in this relationship.
The parent table would be the course and the child table is grade.
So where should the foreign key column go?
When applicable, put the foreign key column in the table that can't live without the other.
In this case, the existence of a grade does not make any sense without a student.
So we put a foreign key for student IDs over here.
Similarly, the existence of a grade does not make any sense without a course.
So we put a foreign key there to.
This makes more sense.
These are all of Harry's grades, and this is Harry's grade and potions.
These are all of her mind is grids and this is her grid and charms.
Let's start setting up the relationship.
We need to ensure that many grades associate with one course.
We already have a very similar relationship over here, so let's just copy it over in this case.
Course.
And the existence of a course is not optional.
A grade needs to be assigned to a student, and it needs to be based on a course.
None of these can be null.
The foreign key column for course IDs will be called course ID.
And it's going to reference the primary key column of the course, which is also called ID.
So we can leave that as is.
And we're good here.
But like before, we want the relationship to be bidirectional such that there is navigational access
from both sides.
So here we need to define a one to many relationship, such that one course is associated with many
grades.
We're not done yet.
We need to set mapped by equal to the property that maps this relationship.
Make sure the string is an exact match.
And just like before, we're going to say Cascade is equal to Cascade Type Dot.
So any operation that we perform on a particular course, we'll get cascaded to all of its associated
child entities as before.
Do not forget to put JSON ignore when a course entity is being serialized into JSON.
We do not want this field to be part of the JSON.
Otherwise the serialization process will go into a recursive loop and then the request will get aborted,
just like you saw before with this particular field.
So let's view what we have so far in the H two console.
Let's view all the students, all the grades, as well as all the courses.
Okay.
We're looking good.
We've got one table of students, one table of courses, and the grade table, which references the
two others such that a score is assigned to each student based on a particular course.
Now we can finally finish up the grade service implementation, so when we're querying for a grade,
we need to find that grade based on a student ID.
And a course I'd.
So as long as you follow the syntax we talked about earlier, start with your action.
What are you trying to do?
Followed by your criteria.
And if you've got multiple criteria, you can separate it with either or or end.
We want to find a grade based on a student ID and a course ID.
So we need to also make sure to include a course ID parameter that it can use to make the query.
This should actually be returning an optional grade, not a grade.
We will refactor our code around optional IDs very soon, but that's a topic for later.
For now, let's just finish up.
So right now, spring JPA is going to see our method signature and it will auto generate a query that
will find a grade based on these identifiers which match these two column names.
So we can go back and fix the method here.
Fine by student ID and course ID passing in the course ID.
And now when we're saving a grade, we need to set the student who the grade belongs to, and we also
need to set the course that they're being graded on.
So we'll say grade.
Dot set course will need to auto wire the course repository, but dependency injection will happen behind
the scenes.
Thanks to all our constructor.
And now we can just say.
Course.
Course is equal to course repository.
Dot fined by ID or face ID and we will forcefully unwrap the optional dot to get for now.
And now, once the grade has been associated with a student entity, once it has been associated with
a course entity, then we can save it.
So now what I'm going to do is go back and I will give her mine.
He has an ID of three.
I will give her an A-plus in history of magic.
So a student with an ID of three History of Magic has an idea for.
Let's give her an A-plus.
And what happens is as spring GPA saves our grade, the grade that was saved is returned and serialized
into JSON.
And here we can see the grade has an ID of one.
It's an A-plus.
It belongs to her mini Granger and her mini got an A-plus in history of magic.
Let's go to the H two console and verify that everything is working as it should.
And clearly it gives her mini an A-plus in history of magic.
This is looking really good so far.
I can now make a get request that fetches her minis grade.
So ID of three course ID of four.
Let's make that get request and it sends back her Minnie's grade in History of Magic, which is very
clearly an A-plus.
Everything is looking really good so far.
Okay.
Now let's update a grade.
Going back to our great service implementation, the save method is actually very, very special because
if it sees that you're saving a great entity that already exists in the database, then it's going to
update that grade instead.
It's not going to create a new one.
So what I'll do over here is I will say grade.
Grade is equal to grade repository dot fine by student ID and course ID.
So here we're fetching a grade that already exists.
We're going to update the pre existing grade to whatever score we get from the consumer.
And then we'll say.
Great repository dot save grade.
And because this time we're saving a grade that already exists inside the database, we're clearly fetching
it from there.
Spring JPA is not going to create a new grade record.
It's going to update the existing record with whatever score was passed in.
Now, back here inside of grade controller, we're going to call grade service dot update grade.
Okay.
And.
Now what I'm going to do is give Harry a grade.
So Harry has an idea of one and we'll give him a grade in potions.
So we'll give him a C plus or a D plus and potions.
All right.
Here we see Harry has a D plus and potions looking good.
Let me just confirm.
Everything is working well inside of our h to console.
We're good.
And now you know what?
I've decided that a D plus is a bit too harsh.
So let me go back and update Harry's grade.
Give him a C-plus instead.
And the update works beautifully.
If I were to refresh.
And now this is looking good.
The save method is to recognize that that grade already existed in the database.
We updated that grade entity score to a C plus, and because the grade already exists in the database,
it does not create a new grade record.
It just updates the existing one to a C plus.
This is looking really, really good.
Now, what happens if I try to update a grade that doesn't exist?
So right now, Harmony doesn't have any grades for any courses.
I'll go back and I will update a grade for her mining.
Oh, we get a null pointer exception.
We have a vulnerability in our app.
Now, I could just go back here and say if grade is equal to null, perform my null check and handle
things accordingly.
But the thing is optional is offer a much more elegant way of dealing with nulls.
So we're not going to be performing null checks like this.
This video has gone on long enough, though.
So in the next lesson, we're going to refactor some of our code around options.